Harmonization Group Meeting, March 29, 2017
===========================================

**Participants**:  Dirk Kutscher, Börje Ohlman, Dave Oran, Luca Muscariello, Giovanna Carofiglio, Alex Afanasyev

## Identified tasks

1. Schedule weekly call to progress differences documents
2. Need to set a deadline to finish initial draft

## Discussion minutes

**Dirk**: midterm goal: need progress specification.  Last year started the harmonization effort.  How to pick up ends / what next steps, what interets, what other people think.

**Luca**: There is a convergence wiki page (https://trac.ietf.org/trac/irtf/wiki/icnrg/convergence). The effort should not go forever, but be a starting point to move together.  Resulting in same or different ideas, with potentially multiple documents.

**Giovanna**: Objective really important.  In the beginning core set of features / document different design choices / options.  Don't know what the stage of the effort.

**AlexA**: status update / recollections

**Dirk**: ICN principles...  // core concepts in terminology documents

**Börje**: do we have NDN drafts? start where we are / start harmonization.  Suggestion to convert to draft.

**DaveO:**  2 things. First we need to get clarity on differences: what is different and why.  Don't need to converge on one achitecture right away.  Difficult politics if we push to converge to one set too quickly.  Issue Börje brings about actual documents needs to be discussed by NDN community, as there is implication on giving up change control.   We can only move so far to make progress ... changes of ICNRG drafts require consensus of ICNRG group.  Down the line we'll face that.  Try not to do it too soon... It's ok for now to refer to external published documents for people to find stuff.  Ultimately documents should become part of ICNRG.

**Luca**: Good options. If we finish the work started in convergence effort, defining what is common and what is not common.  2 drafts in CCNx.  We cannot say up to this point and after that is not.  Having a document common/uncommon diverge good starting point to have ...  Terminology draft include some... Want a way to harmonize / organize a way to see differences.

**AlexA**: Our first short-term goal is to have document identifying commonalities and differences of approaches.  This is a starting point for further convergence work.

**Giovanna**: Currently, differences draft is missing NDN parts

**AlexA**: We very much interested to finish the work, were just stalled by multiple high-priority committments.

**Giovanna**: At some point need to isolate common ICN principles.  After document differences.

**AlexA**: Yes, that is the overall goal for the work in the convergence group.  First item is to identify differences, then based on that formulate ICN principles.  Based on that we should be able to define semantics/protocol definition of the core ICN protocol.  Additional specs can define implementation options (what part of core need to be implemented for a specific use case) and additional optional specification.

**Dirk**: What would be cisco participation going forward?

**Giovanna**: We want contribute, will mostly work remotely.  Not sure can have same level as PARC previously had.

**Luca**: One thing that changed. PARC was managing CCNx effort as own technology, describing own tech as developed in this doc.  Cisco wants approach to be more community driven.  Not just Cisco pushing Cisco tech (for which it owns IPR), but we'd like to see community effort, everybody welcome.  People feel to free say something about the documents. Up to them to speek.

**Giovanna**: Don't like the current distinction between CCNx/NDN.  OK as a starting point, but shouldn't stay too long with "two separate". Need a "community outcome"

**DaveO:**: (cold water)  At the moment we don't have a community, but two groups in parallel tracks.  How to bootstrap the community?  Effective community cannot be a union of two groups of moving tech forward in 2 separate paths.

**Luca**: PARC's way: develop software internally, drafts made in PARC, published, updated by PARC people as single entity.  Building community means - having a framework with governance to software modifications.  governance open, driven by people working on the project.

**DaveO**: We have structural pieces for it to happen.  Missing piece is people to do the work, beyond the usual suspects.

**Giovanna**: Can we leverage ICNRG? Call for contributions / contributing effort.  Participating in discussions.  Is this the right forum for discussions?  We have an announcement on ICNRG wiki, but it is not central point.

**Dirk**: in the past, PARC gave up change control to some of the documents.  But effectively, the changes in CCNx documents were only driven by PARC people alone. Community need to be more responsible for those documents.

**DaveO**: ICNRG should be the place for that.

**Luca**: Not a good idea to make a new framework.  Need people to do the work.

**DaveO**: Bring people to this process, work with technology, move it forward.

**Luca**: Need to make it work better, more resources; capacity problems. One thing cisco done recently goes in this direction.  "this is not a cisco tech, a community driven effort."  Everybody feel welcome to participate.

**DaveO**: Not transmitter problem, we have a receiver problem.

**Börje**: How to make NDN people involved?

**Giovanna**: Do we have just cisco + NDN or others too?

**Luca**: NDN has been doing a lot of work.  We need to get other people outside who not working / marginally contribution to ICNRG.   There are many companies / industry, who were not really engaging, maybe because IPR (which is now addressed).  I expect more companies to put effort in more capacity in software & ICRNG.  NDN have a lot of work in software and documents.  Issue with industry.

**Börje**: Important thing for industry to see common effort.  NDN + cisco people to work out something common.  This will make more believable // will go somewhere.

**Dirk**:  Need to be more industry. More involvement from other people.

**Börje**: How to motivate?

**Dirk**: New situation hope will help.

**AlexA**: Need funding for academia people to actively participate.  Currently to some level covered by NDN consortium, but industry with several exception is not yet actively involved.

**Börje**: Most of work can be done without physical meetings.  Need active participation.

**Dirk**: note that there is perceived to be 2 camps. Little motivation for others to take any side.

**Giovanna**: Finish document without involvement of others.  + Invite other later.

**DaveO**: If we can make big push with reasonably short deadline, dropping off point. Let's try get community of people.  Broader than people describing difference / go forces next step.  As long as perceived 2 camps continue, barrier for new people getting involved.   DaveO not available much after May8 (because of ICN conference).

**AlexA**: Academia folks will have time constraints before May 8 for the same reason.

Deadline before next ICNRG meeting.

**DaveO**: better be way before next ICNRG (in Prague).

**Dirk**: End of May?

**AlexA**: Do we have a plan for an interim ICNRG before Prague?

**Dirk**: No current plans (need discussion at the meeting).  If needed can have a virtual interim meeting if focused group calls are not enough.

**next step find weekly slot.**

**DaveO**: let's wait for the next call scheduled for progress to happen.  Let's start writing.

**Börje**: Let's walk through document / what pieces missing.

**Dirk**: Who from Cisco can participate? 

**Luca**:  Currently, in Cisco there are 12 people working on different ICN-related packages. All working on software, know CCNx well and also know well NDN.  If describing current status, we can help.

**AlexA**: Volunteer to drive effort 

**DaveO**: Real work done only by real people.  Keeping in loop who are engaging with. May help to do some marketing.  Explain hhy people should put energy in this. Could be helpful to put more people from industry and academia to participate

**Luca/Giovanna**: Will do that.

**Dirk**: ICNRG/ update group tomorrow.  Summarize what has discussed.
